# Analysing trade data using STATA
- The objective is to study the effects of currency unions on trade. 
# Data description
- The documentation folder contains five data files: DOTS1960 2005.dta, pwt.dta, RTA.dta, CU.dta, and dist cepii.dta. The first contains bilateral trade values by origin and destination countries, every 5 years over the period 1960-2005. The second contains country level data such as population and GDP. The third and fourth files contain information on regional trade agreements and currency unions, i.e. whether the two countries are engaged in a trade agreement (customs unions or free trade areas) and / or in a currency union in year t. The last file contains information on time-invariant variables which might affect trade costs between countries. More information on data sources, as well as two papers related to the effect of currency unions on trade and to gravity equations, can be found in the documentation folder.
# CU affect on trade-small/large?
-There are issues with Rose's empirical specification, which are explored below, but Rose here highlights his main finding. He reports what his estimates imply, namely that trade between members of currency unions is threefold trade between non-members, without asserting any causal interpretation of the finding. Now, the question is whether the effect is indeed “robust”: as explored below, it’s not. From the perspective of the trade models(studied during my coursework), the key mechanism through which a currency union should foster trade is a reduction in trade costs (the τ in gravity-like models). A fundamental ingredient of a currency union is the removal of all tariffs and trade barriers. This should increase bilateral trade. This aspect is however inherent to shallower forms of economic integration as well, such as Free Trade Agreements, that do not imply the sharing of a common currency. Hence, once the effect of FTAs is taken into account, currency unions should have a relatively small effect on bilateral trade. Any large effect could be justified by the removal of some additional transaction cost that stems from using different currencies. Likewise, the reduction of exchange rate volatility
and the removal of any possible beggar-thy-neighbour competitive devaluation among members may facilitate international commerce.
# Analysis 
- First we construct a gravity dataset which includes: the exporter and importer countries identifiers, the year, the value of bilateral trade, exporters’ and importers’ size, time-invariant trade costs proxies (such as distance, common language, etc.), RTA and CU dummies.
- Then, I look at the share of countries and trade belonging to RTAs and CUs evolved over the period. Please see the graphs (Results folder). Trade taking place within FTA has consistently increased over time, with an acceleration since the mid-1980s. Currency unions show a different patterns, with a decrease in the early years of the sample and a recent increase after the adoption of the euro.
- Then I estimate the currency union effect. First I add only (i) gdp and distance, (ii) CU and RTA variables, (iii)  other proxies for trade costs and (iv) importer and exporter fixed effects.
- After reading Baldwin's paper, I now run  different regressions for each years of the sample using exporter and importer fixed effects. Here the use of country fixed effects serve the purpose of fully controlling for multilateral resistance indexes and any other country-specific determinants of trade. The main drawback of splitting the sample year-by-year is that any effect might be specific to the period under study.
- I now estimate the baseline gravity equation adding country-pair fixed effects. The currency union effect decreases to .6. The inclusion of country-pair fixed effects can correct for possible reverse causality to the extent to which the bilateral factors that at the same time create trade and increase the propensity to enter currency unions are constant over time. Similarly, the country-pair fixed effects control for any other bilateral determinants of trade that is constant over time and hence may include unobservables that, for instance, affect trade costs. They can’t however correct model misspecification that stems from the effect of country-specific price indexes and multilateral resistance terms, as these are time varying. Perhaps more important, the specification exploits only variation within country-pairs, which is likely to be minimal when one looks at the effect of relatively rare policies, such as currency unions. In this particular application, we have relatively few years in the sample. With country pair FE we identify the within country-pair variations: but these variations can be quite small with a short time dimension.
- I now use the command reghdfe to run regressions controlling for (estimations might take some time to run):
(a) Importer × year and exporter × year fixed effects.
(b) Importer × year, exporter × year fixed effects and dyadic (country-pair) fixed
effects.
- The idea is that the inclusion of importer-year and exporter-year fixed effects control for the prices indexes and the multilateral resistance terms, which enters the gravity equation. These factors are specific to each country in the pair and vary over time. Including further country-pair fixed effects delivers the most compelling (and demanding) specification of the gravity equation. As discussed above, here I can further control for bilateral and time-invariant unobservables hence reducing possible omitted variable bias and take into account most concerns of reverse causality.
-  I then look at whether small countries’ trade benefit more or less from being part of a currency unions.
-  Now, knowing there are obvious drawbacks to log linearized gravity equation(such as selection bias, error term being heteroscedastic), I use a Poisson estimator to estimate the gravity equation.
-  Finally, I Investigate the effect of the Euro on trade using this dataset by quantifying the effect of currency unions on trade.
